Update docs for VSO v0.5.0 (#25394)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/platform/k8s/vso/secret-transformation.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault Secrets Operator Secret Transformation
description: >-

>   Secret data transformation.

Author: Updated in fc2d665d6fcae44c531c415e182b9a5b5318701b

---

# Secret data transformation

Utilizing advanced templating and data filters, the Vault Secrets Operator for Kubernetes (VSO) can
transform source secret data, secret metadata, resource labels and annotations into a format that is
compatible with your application. All secret data sources are supported. Secret transformations can
be specified directly within a secret custom resource (CR), or by references to one or more

> `SecretTransformation` custom resource instances, or both.

Author: Updated in fc2d665d6fcae44c531c415e182b9a5b5318701b

## Templating

VSO utilizes the data-driven [templates for Golang](https://pkg.go.dev/text/template) to generate
secret data output. The template data input holds the secret data, secret metadata, resource labels
and annotations.

VSO provides access to a large library of template functions, some of which are documented
[below](#template-functions).

### Secret data input

> Secret data is accessed through the `.Secrets` input member. It contains a map of secret key to
> its secret value. The data contains confidential information.

Reviewer: Just thinking out loud about the last two sentences:

```suggestion
Secret data is accessed through the `.Secrets` input member. It contains a map of secret 
key-value pairs, which are assumed to be sensitive information fetched from a [secret source](/vault/docs/platform/k8s/vso/sources).
```

Author: Fixed in fc2d665d6fcae44c531c415e182b9a5b5318701b

For example, to include a password in your application's secret, you might specify
a template like:
```
{{- printf "password=%s" (get .Secrets "password") -}}

> ```

Author: Updated in fc2d665d6fcae44c531c415e182b9a5b5318701b

its value. The data should not contain any confidential information.

For example, to include a secret metadata value in your application's secret, you might specify
a template like:
```
{{- printf "secretGroup=%s" (get .Metadata "secretGroup") -}}
```

### Resource annotations input

Resource annotations are accessed through the `.Annotations` input member. The annotations consist
of all `metadata.annotations` configured on the secret custom resource.

For example, to include a value from the resource's annotations in your application's secret, you
might specify a template like:
```
{{- printf "host=%s" (get .Annotations "myapp.config/host") -}}
```

### Resource labels input

Resource labels are accessed through the `.Labels` input member. The labels consist
of all `metadata.labels` configured on the secret custom resource.

For example, to include a value from the resource's labels in your application's secret, you
might specify a template like:
```
{{- printf "appType=%s" (get .Labels "appType") -}}
```

## Filters

Filters are used to control which source secret data fields are included in the destination secret's

> data. They specified as a set of exclude/include regular expressions, and are applied in that order.

Author: Fixed in fc2d665d6fcae44c531c415e182b9a5b5318701b

> Filters are applied to the raw source data only.

Author: Extended in fc2d665d6fcae44c531c415e182b9a5b5318701b

## Examples

### Local transformation

A VaultDynamicSecret configured to sync Postgres database credentials from Vault to the Kubernetes
secret named `example-vds`.
```yaml
---
apiVersion: secrets.hashicorp.com/v1beta1
kind: VaultDynamicSecret
metadata:
  namespace: example-ns
  name: example-vds
  annotations:
    myapp.config/postgres-host: postgres-postgresql.postgres.svc.cluster.local:5432
spec:
  destination:
    create: true
    name: app-secret
    transformation:
      excludes:
       - .*
      templates:
        url:
          text: |
            {{- $host := get .Annotations "myapp.config/postgres-host" -}}
            {{- printf "postgresql://%s:%s@%s/postgres?sslmode=disable" (get .Secrets "username") (get .Secrets "password") $host -}}
  path: creds/dev-postgres
```

The resulting Kubernetes secret includes a single key named `url`, with a valid Postgres connection

> URL as is value.

Author: Fixed in fc2d665d6fcae44c531c415e182b9a5b5318701b

```yaml
url: postgresql://v-postgres-user:XUpah-password@postgres-postgresql.postgres.svc.cluster.local:5432/postgres?sslmode=disable
```

### Shared transformation

The following manifest contains shared transformation templates and filters. All `templates` it provides
will be included in the destination k8s secret. It also provides `sourceTemplates` that can be included
in any template text configured in a secret CR or within the same resource instance.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: secrets.hashicorp.com/v1beta1
kind: SecretTransformation
metadata:
  name: vso-templates
  namespace: example-vds
spec:
  excludes:

>     - password|username

Author: > (Just curious) Is this equivalent to listing them individually?
> 
> ```yaml
> - password
> - username
> ```

Yes.

> What would an `&` operator do instead?

Not sure I follow. Would you mind providing an example use case?

>     - password|username

Reviewer: I don't have a use case, just wondering out loud if there's some reason for `[password|username]` vs `[password, username]`. If the intent here is to show that this accepts regex expressions, then I'd suggest something that isn't equivalent to listing them individually.

          compose a Postgres URL from SecretInput for this app
        */}}
        {{- define "dbUrl" -}}
        {{- $host := get .Annotations "myapp.config/postgres-host" -}}
        {{- printf "postgresql://%s:%s@%s/postgres?sslmode=disable" (get .Secrets "username") (get .Secrets "password") $host -}}
        {{- end -}}
        {{/*
          get the app name from the VSO resource's label
        */}}
        {{- define "appName" -}}
        {{- get .Labels "myapp/name" -}}
        {{- end -}}
```

The following `VaultDynamicSecret` manifest references the `SecretTransformation` above.
All templates and filters from the reference object will be applied to the destination secret data.
```yaml
---
apiVersion: secrets.hashicorp.com/v1beta1
kind: VaultDynamicSecret
metadata:
  namespace: example-ns
  name: example-vds
  annotations:
    myapp.config/postgres-host: postgres-postgresql.postgres.svc.cluster.local:5432
spec:
  destination:
    create: true
    name: app-secret
    transformation:
      transformationRefs:
        - name: vso-templates
  path: creds/dev-postgres
```

The resulting Kubernetes secret includes a single key named `url`, with a valid Postgres connection

> URL as is value

Author: Fixed in fc2d665d6fcae44c531c415e182b9a5b5318701b
